* Phases of database design
* Entity Relationship(ER) model
* Enhanced Entity Relationship(EER) model
* UML Class Diagram

> Phases of database design

* (DBMS independent) Business process -> Requirement collection and analysis -> Database requirements -> Conceptual design -> Conceptual data model -> (DBMS specific) -> Logical design -> logical data model -> Physical design -> Internal data model.

> Entity Relationship model

* Entity Types
  * Represent a business concept with an unambiguous meaning to a particulars set of users such as supplier, student...
  * Entity is an instance of it such as Ad Fundum.
* Attribute Types 
  * Represent a property of an entity type such as name and address.
  * Attribute is an instance of an attribute type
  * Domain:
    * It is not displayed in ER model
    * It can also contain null values
    * It specifies the set of values that may be assigned to an attribute for each individual entity.
  * Key Attribute Types:
    * It is an attribute type whose values are distinct for each individual entity
    * It can also be a combination of attribute types.
  * Composite Attribute Types:
    * It can be decomposed into other meaningful attributes types.
    * It can have multiple values.
  * Derived Attribute Type:
    * A derived attribute type is an attribute type which can be derived from another attribute type
* Relationship Types
  * Definition
    * It represents an association between two or more entities
    * It defines a set of relationships among instances of one or more entity types.
  * Degree and Roles
    * The degree of a relationship type corresponds to the number of entity types partcipating in the relationship type(e.g unary:d1, binary:d2, ternary:d3)
    * The roles of a relationship type indicate the varios directions that can be used to interpret it.
  * Cardinalities
    * Every relationship type can be characterized in terms of its cardinalities, which specify the min or max number of relationship instances that an individual entity can participate in.
    * Relationship types are often characterized by their maximum cardinalities.
    * Minimum cardnality can be 0 or 1
      * 0: partial participation
      * 1: total participation or existence dependency
    * Maximum cardinality can be 1 or N
  * Relationship Attribute Types
    * Relationship type can also have attribute types
    * These attribute types can be migrated to one of the participating entity types in case of 1:1 OR 1:N relationship type.
* Weak Entity Types
  * A weak entity type is an entity type that does not have a key attribute type of its own
    * related to owner entity type from which it borrows an attribute type to make up a key attribute type.
* Ternary Relationship Types
* Examples of the ER model
* Limitations of the ER model
  * ER model presents a temporary snapshot and cannot model temporal constraints
  * ER model cannot guarantee the consistency across multiple relationship types
  * Domains are not included in the ER model
  * Functions are not included in the ER model


> Enhanced Entity Relationship(EER) model
* Specialization
  * Specialization refers to the process of defining a set of subclasses of an entity type
  * The specialization process defines an "is a" relationship
  * The specialization can then establish additional specific attribute types for each subclass
  * The specialization can also establish additional specific relationship types for each subclass
  * A subclass inherits all attribute types and relationship types from its superclass.
  * The disjointness constraint specifies to what subclasses an entity of the superclass belong to.
    * A disjoint specialization is a specialization whereby an entity can be a member of at most one of the subclass.
    * An overlap specialization is a specialization whereby the same entity may be a member of more than one subclass.
  * The completeness constraint indicates if all entities of the superclass should belong to one of the subclasses or not.
    * A total specialization is a specialization whereby every entity in the superclass must be a member of some subclass
    * A partial specialization allows an entity to only belong to the superclass and to none of the subclass.
    * In a specialization hierarchy, every subclass can only have a single superclass an inherits the attribute types and relationship types of all its predecessor superclasses all the way up to the root of the hierarchy
    * In a specialization lattice, a subclass can have multiple superclasses.
* Generalization
  * also called abstraction, is the reverse process of specialization
    * Specilaization corresponds to a top-down process of conceptual refinement
    * Generalization corresponds to a bottom-up process of conceptual synthesis
* Categorization
  * A category is a subclass that has several possible superclassees
  * Each superclass represents a different entity type
  * The category represents a collection of entites that is a subset of the union of the superclasses.
  * Inheritance in the case of categorization corresponds to an entity inheriting
  * A categorization can be total or partial
    * Total: all entities of the superclasses belong to the subclass
    * Partial: not all
* Aggregation
  * Entity types that are related by a particular relationship type can be combined or aggregated into a higher level aggregate entity type.
  * It is especially useful when the aggregate entity type has its own attribute types and/or relationship types
* Designing the EER Model
  1. Identify the entity types
  2. Identify the relationship types and assert their degree
  3. Assert the cardinality ratios and participation constraints
  4. Identify the attribute types and assert whether they are simple or composite, single or mutiple valued, derived or not.
  5. Link each attribute type to an entity type or a relationship type.
  6. Denote the key types of each entity type
  7. Identify the weak entity types and their partial keys 
  8. Apply abstractions such as generalization/specialization, categorization and aggregation
  9. Assert the characteristics of each abstraction such as disjoint or overlapping, total or partial.

> (Unified Modeling Language) UML Class Diagram
* Origin
* Recap of Object Orientation
* Classes
* Varirables
* Access Modifiers
* Associations
* Specialization/Generalization
* Aggregation
* UML Class Diagram Example
* Advanced UML Modeling Concepts
* UML Class Diagram versus EER
